.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH openrepo-sync 1  "openrepo-sync 0.1.0"
.SH NAME
openrepo\-sync \- Sync packages from upstream sources into an OpenRepo repository
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBopenrepo\-sync\fR [\fB\-\-config\fR \fI<FILE>\fR] [\fB\-\-projects\fR \fI<DIR>\fR] [\fB\-\-project\fR \fI<NAME>\fR] [\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR] [\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-verbose\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBopenrepo\-sync\fR checks upstream sources (GitHub Releases, direct URLs, SourceForge) for new package versions, downloads them, uploads them to a self\-hosted OpenRepo instance, and prunes old releases beyond a configured keep count.
.PP
Configuration is split into a global config file (server URL and API key) and per\-project YAML files (one per software package).
.PP
On each run the tool:
.IP \(bu 2
Authenticates against the OpenRepo API (\fI/api/whoami\fR)
.IP \(bu 2
For each project, fetches the latest release list from the configured upstream source
.IP \(bu 2
Compares filenames against packages already in the repository
.IP \(bu 2
Downloads and uploads any new packages
.IP \(bu 2
Deletes packages beyond the \fIkeep_versions\fR limit, keeping only the newest
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-config\fR \fI<FILE>\fR
Path to the global configuration YAML file.
Default: \fIconfig.yaml\fR (relative to the current directory).
.TP
\fB\-\-projects\fR \fI<DIR>\fR
Directory that contains per\-project YAML files (one \fI*.yaml\fR or \fI*.yml\fR per package).
Default: \fIprojects/\fR (relative to the current directory).
.TP
\fB\-\-project\fR \fI<NAME>\fR
Sync only the named project. The name is matched against the \fIname\fR field in each project YAML file.
When omitted, all projects in the \fB\-\-projects\fR directory are synced.
.TP
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
Perform all read operations (version fetching, repository listing) but skip uploads and deletes.
Intended actions are logged at INFO level with a \fI[dry\-run]\fR prefix.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable debug\-level logging.  Equivalent to setting \fBRUST_LOG=debug\fR.
In verbose mode the log output also includes the source module path for each line.
The \fBRUST_LOG\fR environment variable takes precedence over this flag when set.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a short usage summary and exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print the version number and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.SS Global config (config.yaml)
.nf
openrepo:
  api_url: "https://openrepo.example.com"
  api_key: "${OPENREPO_API_KEY}"   # supports ${ENV_VAR} expansion
download_dir: "/tmp/openrepo-sync" # optional, defaults to system temp dir
.fi
.SS Project file (projects/<name>.yaml)
.PP
Source type \fBgithub\fR \(em GitHub Releases:
.nf
name: curl
repo_uid: debian-stable
keep_versions: 3
source:
  type: github
  owner: curl
  repo: curl
  asset_filter: "*.deb"   # optional glob; omit to keep all assets
  prerelease: false        # optional, default false
.fi
.PP
Source type \fBdirect_url\fR \(em static download URL, version parsed from filename:
.nf
name: mypkg
repo_uid: debian-custom
keep_versions: 1
source:
  type: direct_url
  url: "https://example.com/releases/mypkg-2.1.0.deb"
.fi
.PP
Source type \fBdirect_url_latest\fR \(em URL points to a file with no version in the name; the package is downloaded first and \fBdpkg\-deb\fR or \fBrpm\fR is used to extract the actual version:
.nf
name: mypkg-latest
repo_uid: debian-custom
keep_versions: 1
source:
  type: direct_url_latest
  url: "https://example.com/releases/mypkg-LATEST.deb"
.fi
.PP
Source type \fBsourceforge\fR \(em SourceForge file listing:
.nf
name: sfpkg
repo_uid: debian-sf
keep_versions: 2
source:
  type: sourceforge
  project: my-sf-project
  folder: "releases/linux"   # optional subfolder path
  filename_filter: "*.deb"   # optional glob filter
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBOPENREPO_API_KEY\fR
When present, the \fI${OPENREPO_API_KEY}\fR placeholder in \fIconfig.yaml\fR is expanded to this value.
.TP
\fBRUST_LOG\fR
Controls log filtering at a fine\-grained level.  Examples:
.nf
  RUST_LOG=debug                          # all modules at debug
  RUST_LOG=openrepo=debug,reqwest=warn    # own code verbose, HTTP client quiet
  RUST_LOG=openrepo_sync::sync=trace      # trace only the sync module
.fi
Takes precedence over \fB\-\-verbose\fR when set.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fB0\fR
All projects synced without errors.
.TP
\fB1\fR
One or more projects encountered an error. Errors are printed to stderr; other projects still proceed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Sync all projects using defaults:
.nf
  openrepo-sync
.fi
.PP
Sync only the \fIcurl\fR project with debug output:
.nf
  openrepo-sync --project curl --verbose
.fi
.PP
Dry run against a non\-default config:
.nf
  openrepo-sync --config /etc/openrepo/config.yaml --projects /etc/openrepo/projects --dry-run
.fi
.PP
Fine\-grained log filter (show HTTP requests):
.nf
  RUST_LOG=debug openrepo-sync --project curl
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
\fIconfig.yaml\fR
Default path for the global configuration file.
.TP
\fIprojects/\fR
Default directory for per\-project YAML files.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBdpkg\-deb\fR(1), \fBrpm\fR(8)
.SH VERSION
v0.1.0
